e e
well good morning folks how are you
I'm going try to see if I
can hear the old man here
today hope you're doing well good
morning good morning good
morning bear with me a second
I have to wait for the ads to stop
playing
sorry audio check one
audio check too
all right sounds like it's uh working if
you're going complain today that the
volume's lower then I certain that I
have no idea what I can do to correct it
but uh everything seems to be
appropriate and fine on my end all right
so I have some stale bread to use today
okay the levels I have here on the chart
are from last Thursday so last
Thursday's data last Thursday's Gap
information not going to ring in
anything from Friday or this morning so
we're just going to study price action
on the basis of
that and I will be departing at uh 10:30
this
morning and you can set your clock to
that one today because my stomach is
upset so I'm trying to to get I wasn't
going to actually live stream this
morning
but this wouldn't be right so I want to
see it trade up into this little purple
box area if you can use that as a
premium if it runs for the cell side
over here first then I'm not interested
in
that this gray box in
here that is Thursday's first presented
fair value G
I'll cover this over here by the way I
just shared the a short little
vignette short little video on uh
Twitter showcasing my my time in price
Theory not the [__] you're hearing
people talk about
so we didn't get the run back up into
the bottom of that before taking out the
shortterm low on the one minute
chart I'm only be working with the one
and 15 seconds this
morning just for tape
reading now see how coming back to it
there like that I'm not as interested in
it
there as it was forming this Candlestick
here and left that little tiny little
volume
imbalance I will I will be pushing the
button today by the way in case you're
wondering that's why the little hot
buttons are up
there but uh prior to this low over
here that low being taken let me
annotate real
quick the framework was this I wanted to
see it
when it broke below here and it created
that little gap between the
bodies this Candlestick I wanted to see
that close the next one open up trade to
the volume imbalance and hit the bottom
of that purple shaded area which I'm
going to show you in a little while
before I close what those levels
are and teach you a little bit more
about uh the new day opening
gaps but prior to that low being hit
that's the better scenario that's the
better
setup because it's coming back up into a
premium it it's repricing to here then
it drops down
into that low right there so that would
be a very very
low resistance liquidity runs uh set up
it still delivered again but I prefer it
to do it when the liquidity hasn't been
taken
yet these are all high frequency trading
setups that we're going to be looking at
this morning things that P out a lot
that you can study you can tape read on
you can practice you can do demo trades
entes and whatnot on
it all right same scenario
here we're looking at the top of this
old inefficiency from last week we're
going to study the behavior of of it
around the top of that to the midpoint
we've already got real close to the
midpoint of
it take this line
off in your notes okay your
setups just because we're looking at
specific levels or PD arrays there has
to be a displacement off of that level
that's the signature you're looking for
just because we have the lines or the
levels or the rectangles drawn over top
of the price action there has to be
something that kind of like tips its
hand shows you hey look I'm about to do
it here's the proof of it here and then
you wait for the fair value Gap or you
wait for an order block to trade back
to the signature might be a run on stops
before it trades to the PD and then wait
till it's trading at the PD and then
drop hard or rally away from it based on
whatever you're looking for right
now I'm going to pull up the regular
trading
hours so we have a premium Gap
here so it's already
done its return into midgap
we have all of this portion down in here
between this candle's low and that
candle close this is the unfilled
portion of the opening range
Gap that's this right here it's not the
color I want to use
but so I'll love this area in here that
is
all still
open and primed for a potential
exploration down into that but that's
the low of the day so far
here we'll go back to regular trading I
mean sorry electronic trading hours
now notice that the first fair value got
first presented fair value
got looks like it's really
small yeah it's only a quarter quarter
of a
point it's not all that
exciting I'd prefer to use
this in here because it's so
small kind of like that little dick en
that's on Twitter
it overlaps with an old new day opening
Gap too so we'll see what happens if it
can trade above it then we'll watch and
see if it wants to treat it as a
discount array but it has to show
displacement off of it not just simply
trading to
it it's Monday we have large
gap all this price over here that was
smooth it's been made Jagged and we have
unfilled portion of the opening range
Gap in that blue shaded area down
there I mentioned moment ago before
coming on the live stream that I intend
to make
a a library of YouTube shorts
highlighting and showcasing every
individual PD array that you've been
taught and where I'm executing on it so
that we can see it in action it's a
little bit more Dynamic than just simply
a picture in a book
or being described you
know basically using it explaining it
you dynamically like that's the best way
of of showcasing
it so so far this is actually an ugly
morning session for me I don't really
like what we're doing here so
far here's your uh
very you
got one
minute that this oriented looking at the
15sec
chart that that's the that's the first
yeah sorry I
apologize so I'd like to see something
create a a fair value Gap in here and
then it can explore down into the lower
ends of that
unfinished opening range
Gap it's a little muddy this
morning means that probabilities are a
little bit off we'll still we'll still
work with it
I'm uh I'm
I'm trying not to to
do what the
uh what the model is going to call for
for
Caleb so I'm going to try to use a limit
order because he's supposed to be going
in with Market orders first to get used
to going
in and then feeling what it feels like
once he gets the trade
on but I want to try to Showcase a a
limit entry this morning
that fits a criteria that
would still be a trade that he would
more or less aim
for so far it's just not quite there
yet when it's muddy like this meaning
that it's just a lot of holding
price that's time
Distortion and I like to elect to wait
till 10:00 so 10:00 starts a silver
bullet so it's a whole lot more
probability shifting in your favor if
you simply just
wait it's still setting up
we got a little bit of time still I'm
going to show you over
here the
uh the little vignette video I just did
on Twitter
Caleb's strongest uh version of his
model is going to be when he
sees a short-term High
taken here trades down takes out a
short-term low so it takes the buy side
first then takes the sell
side then rallies uses a fair value Gap
can be inversion or could be well get
that see that
there a big
flurry the
uh cell side below
here using a consequent correction of
that Wick that's what I was using for
the
entry I missed the opportunity to go in
below here I wanted to capture that but
it's I wasn't able to pull it off just
pushing the button if I use a limit I
could have got it but it's not it's not
likely
to always do that for you so there's my
entry just a little bit above the
consequent encouragement and then the
inversion fair value Gap as I
mentioned in annotations and rallying
for the shortterm by side and then I use
the load High 0.25 extension and then
because they don't always get traded to
I finessed the exit with factoring in
the spread and this is what I'm talking
about when I'm teaching that you want to
capture the move you don't need to
capture the highest high you don't need
to capture the lowest low you just got
to get them when you look at the chicken
leg okay the chicken leg doesn't have
all the meat on the tips of each end of
the bone it's Collective predominantly
on one end and that's your directional
bias okay I want to I want to get up
here towards the end of the the
drumstick but I don't need to get to end
where the bone is I don't need to get
all those tendons
all right let me get back to this over
here because I like what we
see all right now this one here ideally
should act as in
inversion in a perfect world
I don't want to enter in it I want to
see it go away from it and come back
touch
it and I like to see that stay open
right there oh they fill up okay it's
fine then it definitely has to come down
below it and then tag it
again excuse me
they're really holding in the range
aren't
they notice that it
is not an
entry yet and what I'm looking for it
hasn't been offering it to it to get
in which keeps you from doing what
taking losses you can't lose unless you
get in and it's wrong and if you don't
spend time trying to figure out the
setups and that's more appropriate for
you to enter on
you're not going to you're not going to
survive all righty
then she is playing dirty
today by side right
here for
I believe we might be looking for 2020
I'm sorry 2251 and the
quarter that will be up
here that's the August
22nd 2024 buy side liquidity it's an old
daily high so it looks like uh we have
priced in a potential framework for that
run
there for
now these are problematic areas for me
because I don't like to just use this
little inefficiency here to try to
capture that because to me it could
still come back down and trade into this
inefficiency or retouch the first fair
value Gap that's presented
so I have to sit on my hands and wait
until 10:00 and use the first Fair bag
Gap there for Silver
Bullet see what I
mean so
it's this is a very very dirty Market
this morning just so you know it's
you're probably I'm I'm going to force
myself to take a trade just to prove it
but I'm going to try my best to do it my
best using what's in the market right
now but right now I would not be wanting
to trade this
morning but I'll force it in there just
to just to show you is if I trade in
conditions I already know that it's not
conducive for me it's good for you guys
to see me do it wrong because you see
how often I've been doing it right since
we started the 2024 mentorship so it's a
little more sobering for students to see
their uh their teacher do it incorrect
once in a while
all right so they took bu side and we're
way back down into the first presented
fair value Gap so what you would want to
see is here we want to see it displace
to the upside if it's going to go to
that higher time frame daily buy side it
may not be going there today but we want
to see the initial attempt to do so
because we have relative equal highs in
here for
I'm watching this one
I was I was going to use this one
originally that's I was setting up the
the limit order but I was like nah that
looks like it wants to come back down in
there and touch that
again today is an experience thing not
a not a pure technical you can get beat
up if you don't what you're doing
today and I might get beat up
today I'll let you see it
happens yeah look a little wild this
morning
if it were if it was 10 o'clock and as
it traded there I would had no problem
no apprehension whatsoever to get in
there and go long on that one and have a
run to these highs it still might do it
even though we're not in 10 o'clock yet
that's unfortunate if it does because
that's kind of like what I'm wanting to
frame it on based on time too
now see how it has all these wicks in
here that's what makes it a dirty read
it's real hard to get Precision in that
because you have multiple Wicks here and
they're not they're not right next to
each other so I can I can't do a gray
pull in here
it's it's very very challenging this
morning let's put it that
way because while I do like the fact
that we didn't go any deeper
on the uh opening range Gap and then
we've now cleared the highs and we're
holding it there we're consolidating
around that high so that could be
accumul for it to run
higher longer term I I see this up here
so if you don't have that on your charts
just take a look at on your daily chart
you'll see what that what that level is
it's based on the daily
chart but trying to get in in all of
this messy price action it's just
waiting so since it's waiting I'm going
to wait I don't need to get the lowest
low or the highest high depending on the
direction I want to move on I've already
seen enough every time I've seen the
setups I see reasons why that's not good
and while I don't mind taking a loss in
front of you I'm not trying to take a
loss just for the sake of taking a loss
I'm not trolling
today see the bodies
A Little Less Than 3 minutes still till
10:
so far the uh the runoff of The Flash
manufacturing PMI number that came out
which I don't ever look at the data but
that's what created this little
flurry in here
and
e
for
for for
see if we can come up and touch the
first presented Fair Val Gap again see
if they'll treat it as
inversion watch the body
you see how like demanding that it gives
you displacement after trades to the PD
array it keeps you from getting in the
trade it keeps you from
getting what retail would say chopped up
the afternoon session should be really
nice then because this is being held a
lot this morning
I'm watching the one minute candle over
here I like to see that candle stay kind
of Right Where It's At with its low the
next candle trade down below that low
there and that would be potentially a
silver bullet for a run on the buy
side
for for
I guess the question would be best ass
this way if you were just turning your
charts on say just turned on your your
charts you opened up your your platform
and you see today's price action right
here right now would you be terribly
excited about getting short or getting
long we
have price coming down to past mid Gap
or consequent encouragement of the
opening range Gap again that is seen
here that's this scap here
so we filled half of it a little bit
more than that broke to the upside we
had a nice low it jammed through that so
that's made it's been made Jagged in
here I favor the upside side I
just the entries are going to be very
demanding and I can see how I can get
stopped out rather quickly from any
entry I've already assumed might be
acted on I would have been stopped out
on and it hasn't really gone anywhere
since is still banging around inside its
range between this High here and here
and that's why I'm saying that the
afternoon will be
better the CLE uh the price action will
be cleaner
in the after because of all of this
holding price once it finally is allowed
to release and go the direction it's
going to go in it'll be a lot more
sustainable in the
afternoon see what I
mean actually correctly
I was watching this one I wanted I want
to
see if it could go down there and leave
the upper upper portion only traded to
and the lower portion not traded to and
that stop would have been right
underneath that candlestick's low so
that would have been a stop out too so
so far
I'm very pleased I'm sitting still so
far I got plenty of time still before
10:30 if it gives me a setup I can take
it it's not like I'm hoping for H 100
handles or nothing
volume of Bounce sitting right on top of
the one minute fair value Gap is this
one over
here so everything I'm annotating on
that one minute chart to the left it's
being transposed over here on the 15sec
chart there's a small little volume of
balance right there between these two
candlesticks bodies and it would touch
the top of that limited uh fair value
Gap as well so I want to see it serve
some respect off of that and displace
higher then that would give more more
confidence that it's going to want to
run below above these highs here
these lines here are denoting that
should be trade above it again these
should act the same thing as a rectangle
that's over top of a fav G when it's
inverted so I'd like to see it if it can
get above it treat that as Discounter
right and then press
higher I just don't want to have
rectangle in the chart because there's
already a lot of stuff on here
the Distortion is
real the time Distortion is
real all
right we've seen this trick before a
couple times this
morning for
as soon as you can recognize when the
market is being
held the the better your trading is
going to be and any given day it could
start off looking like it's going to be
a wonderfully technical day
but then it goes right into holding
patterns and it's just you can pick up
why I'm not trying to push the button is
because I know I'm in this condition and
the way I recognized it was we're
spending too much time inside of
inefficiencies or gaps they should never
spend time inside them like see how much
time it's spending in
here that's not what you want you want
to see that when it's above old highs
because that's accumulating new Longs
you want to see that when it's below old
lows because it's accumulating new
shorts but you don't want to see it
inside of inefficiencies because if it
shows that that means that it's being
held or strangled and that's simply just
time Distortion that means the market is
not being permitted to see the price
runs yet it'll it'll be there it's
coming
but trading ahead of it you're going to
get beat up
all right so they were nice enough to
let
you see that high stay intact so you
know it's above
there I'm not sure what I eat but man Al
lie my stomach is
hurting and we have cell side
now right away you can probably
appreciate you don't know what I'm
actually writing down on the notepad
next to me I I I understand that but
I've mentioned that most of what I'm
showing you in the chart
levelwise is most
likely the majority of what I have on my
notes every day and that's why my charts
stay clean because these are all level
that I would just simply have written
down and labeling them that's all that's
all it is I don't have any kind of
secret recipe for
stuff so I don't like this anymore
here got a body tra down below it so
it's no longer valid for me so that's
why it's no longer on the
chart this one here even though we had
the bodies on the 15sec chart it didn't
do that over here on the one minute
chart so that's why that still still
stays pertinent
very very challenging morning this one
anybody makes money today it's luck I
promise you it's luck up to now up to
now I'm not saying it's like that for
the rest of the day but if you made
money it was
luck because this is
uh this is some gnarly delivery inside
of all this consolidation
and you would think that after a medium
impact news driver at 9:45 which created
that little flurry right
here this little Jump Around in here it
would have given you something right it
would given you a run to the highs then
reject it and go lower or run to the
lows and and reject it and go higher
something a little bit more meaningful
than what we've already seen so far
if nothing more at least you've been
able to see me explain why I'm not
willing to take it and you can see the
after effects it's the best thing to do
to sit
still these are conditions that I I
can't really I've been pressed to try to
figure out how I can
simplify times when then you should that
you should not trade because that's
that's a real important skill
set but it's actually very challenging
to try to do it without being in front
of the charts like that's like that's
the that's the thing like you have to
see it I got to see what the chart's
showing at the time I can't just use a
static chart to explain something that
you can't appreciate unless you are
sitting there watching how price is
delivering and feeling the the tendency
to want to fade me or to agree with me
or to think that there's really nothing
at all those those thoughts coming in
they
uh they need to be
experienced because you can't
communicate that in a
book and it can't be communicated inside
of me recording a video where I do a
tradeit either like I got to be over
every individual Candlestick as it's
painting and showing you basically that
this is what's not good about it
and you can feel confident or at
least comfortable not having done
anything
yet all
right maybe we'll go down into that
opening range Gap a little deeper and in
the afternoon come up for that buy
side so far she's been good want to see
how it reacts off of the first fair
value Gap in the morning which you see
over here on the 9 Minute chart that
first percentage fair value Gap is
9:32 now one of the things I like to do
on days where I'm a little apprehensive
this was a this would be a trade that I
would enter on if I was confident that
we were directionally poised to go lower
I'm not convinced of that yet so that's
why I highlighted it in Gray and I'm
watching does that trade pan out and
then now it's hitting the first present
the fair egg up of the
morning and I weigh out how comfortable
how comfortable would I
be still in that
trade based on what we're seeing right
here because all of that range from
where we are right now at Market to here
that's the range that's afforded still
watch that Wick right
here and watch this one
so I don't like the fact that we had
uh another attempt to get back up in
here because we already hit consequent
encouragement of the first FA I got for
today and we hit it again I don't like
that it should have hit it once and then
left left it not spent any more time
remember you don't want to see price
staying inside of the inefficiencies any
Gap any
inefficiency any
Wick those are inefficiencies you do not
want to see price staying inside of them
see what I mean now try try to try to
imagine how I have to communicate that
in a
book it's it's much more relatable and
you can understand it because it's being
explained over charts that are live and
I can't I can't communicate a lot of the
things that I want to teach in a book so
so I teach long- winded over charts with
a lot of commentary because I want you
to see what it should do and what it
shouldn't do and if it does these things
that it shouldn't do it's going to be
problematic for your
trading now the way it's delivered here
I'd want to see it go higher now
and this should act as inversion and
support price should have get back above
it I'm probably going to live stream
this
afternoon probably through some work
with you guys on the PM
session now how can I explain that in a
book right it's it's it'd be very
difficult to do that and right away I
mean if I was reading a book and it says
you know I would have known that because
it did this and did that I reading that
I'd be like okay it's easy to say that
in a book after the fact pretty much
every everything that everyone said
about me when I first started teaching
stuff but then when they see it live
they don't have an excuse
now so consequent
encroachment should not be violated on
that it should be staying above it to
that midpoint there it can trade down
into the upper half touch the consequent
encroachment it can Wick through it but
it's better if it keeps that lower
portion
open watch this
Wick see it
lower half keep your eye on
that really real dirty today now look at
the one minute over
here you see anything in
here do this new
drawings look at that price
action tell
me do you feel that that's a high
probability trading scenario are these
conditions that are high
probability no so it's not it's not
surprising even in my own hands that I'm
not able to see very clear because it's
being held
here but I'm trying my best to find one
where I'm willing to to throw the dice
on it just to show you even if I trade
in these conditions if I trade in these
conditions I will
lose and that's nothing that's not a
derogatory statement about my ability to
trade it wouldn't be a derogatory
statement about anyone at all trading in
this
environment but you have to recognize it
you have to understand what these
characteristics look like and when I was
doing paid mentorship and I would gave
commentary like this over Forex people
were like you know this ain't trading
this ain't this I I didn't pay for this
I want to learn how to trade right you
got to learn how to keep your money
first that's the first lesson Capital
preservation you got to be able to learn
to keep
it making it when it's easy and and the
technicals are there that's that's
that's easy
stuff for
I was going to long it at Market I for I
was supposed to be doing limit order
that that would have that candle right
there I would have been filled about
right
there all right so we ran for the buy
side see the see the wick here see how I
was consolidating around it and then
finally released the away from it then
it gave you that little Gap there when
this candle was trading down into it I
had I was ready to push it I was like
[__] I can't do that because I said I
was going to do a limit
order yeah I'm gonna have to be out here
this afternoon I have to show
you I can't let the day close without
having done it
now where we're at right here because
we've cleared the initial high today
over
here this would need to start showing
some interest going higher otherwise
this could soup and come that down all
the way and clear up some of the cell
side that's
here because anyone that's been long and
they're holding right
now if they're smart they wouldn't be
trying to strangle the the price because
it's been real spotty in the way it's
been delivering so they would want to
keep their stop loss a little bit
further back and they've be resting rate
below these relative equal
lows so we're at a juncture right now
well it would need to start really
running higher if it's bullish that's
what I would expect if I was long where
I was getting ready to do the entry
here I would not want to see what it's
doing right here like I want to see it
now be moving higher
would that would that booler confidence
for you if you were along seeing
that just because price is moving around
just because it's having these little
runs doesn't mean that that's a setup
for you to take a long one or a short
one it doesn't mean that it's a viable
setup for you based on sound money
management and
risk a gambler will be in here trying to
do something every opportunity I'm not
trying to teach you to be a gambler I'm
not a
gambler it's got to make sense it's got
to stick to the rules that I outlined
over here on the one minute
chart we're inside that fair value G
there and it's consequent encroachment
of that
Wick so there you go no knowing why you
shouldn't is so much better than just
simply giving me an entry
strategy I know enough to avoid the
majority of the mistakes that Traders
would use to get into a
trade and my stubbornness about being
precise just is not allowing me to do it
even though I'm telling you this is
where it could do it and I'm ready to do
the trade but I don't want to take the
loss because I don't like to take losing
trades so I can show you where they're
at I can show you what it's likely to do
but I can tell you also that these
aren't likely to pan out because of what
we've been seeing this morning so I will
absolutely be back here on the afternoon
because I want you to see the
difference being patient and knowing why
you're being is such a it's such a
important skill
set because I used to be like chomping
at the bit frustrated that I haven't had
a trade
yet and I'm not like your typical
YouTuber that streams like I have
absolutely zero issues with not putting
a trade on because you're all watching I
don't I don't care if if I'm in front of
the charts and it's not giving me
something that's very sound very easy to
get into and the logic of where the stop
loss needs to be and it's no reason for
it to even reach there unless I'm
absolutely wrong I don't have that right
here is basically what I'm getting at I
can see the setups I can see them I mean
I pointed out to two of them we looked
at this one
here there I framed it that used to be a
gray shaded area and it traded down but
then it failed and I told you it's
likely to fail because it's spending too
much time and it went back up here on
that Candlestick the second time to
consequent encouragement you don't want
to see that you never want to see that
if it can get that deep to get the
consequent encouragement and it leaves
it that upper half should never be
traded to and that consequent
encroachment should not be traded to
until it takes that low
out you need to record that in your
Journal because that's real important
because that's a that's a that's a
repeating phenomenon that could be a
model in and of itself you don't need
much
folks uh the one in here I was going to
take that one for the running the my
side it would have yielded 15 handles or
so but I didn't like it and I'm thankful
that I didn't do it because that stop
would have been right there and when it
was above it here remember I was telling
you it had already spent too much time
there it it's already spent enough time
for it to Dem one to run rally if it's
going to go higher and what it
do
so very very challenging Market
I want to go back and watch the live
streamers later this evening and hear
what their commentary is while they're
watching I can't see it right now
because I'm over my own
charts but I want to hear the uh
descriptions that they give about price
I want to see if they get animated oh
here it comes or here's our setup here's
our classic
setup and then see how the day ends for
them because this is honestly this is a
very very challenging day or at least
the session is very challenging
I wonder what I wonder if Tom hugard is
uh having any luck today he live streams
and trades he trades the cfd
markets the Dax and the footsie they're
like
his his
pets all right we're at that Junction
again either it wants to run higher and
make a higher high and if it does that
would be
bullish or if it fails here and rolls up
over and goes for the cell
side because it can be both right now is
that high probability based on what I
teach
nope it needs to be obvious it needs to
be one-sided it needs to be poised in a
manner where you can't imagine it
dropping from where it is right now when
you want to be long or you can't imagine
it going higher when you are poised the
cell
short and that won't mean anything to
you in the beginning when you don't
know much about what I'm teaching if you
haven't had any experience watching
price or if you've never traded before
uh people that have traded and used
other Concepts they they resonate with
that statement because they can
see how they can
frame I'm just using it my timer again
see how perfect it is it's 10:31 so um
folks that have traded with other logic
before they've they've framed trades
before both long and short I'm certain
and whatever they believed about the
market at the
time then by learning what it is I'm
teaching with price action they can see
the
distinction but when you're brand new
you don't understand what a high
probability setup looks like but this is
what isn't a high probability this is
this is very very
challenging Distortion and it's it's
just simply meaning that the market is
being held artificially there's buying
and selling pressure going on right now
but yet Market's not moving very much so
it's being kept in a very very tight
range and when this range is allowed to
release we're going to have a very nice
afternoon
session so the moral story is in the
closing I I I showed you two of them in
here I wasn't going to execute on them
because I just can't bring myself to do
it I I will take a loss in front of you
I promise you that's going to happen I
just can't bring myself to do it just to
show you a loss I I don't want to do
that
so I'll be back you with you this
afternoon I'll probably start streaming
around 1:45 eastern
time and I'll hang out with you probably
till 3 o'clock or so or whatever
whatever the first setup pans out and
gives me something to to Showcase and
then whenever that closes that's that's
when I'll end the stream but up to 3
o' I think that's going to be it for
today so take some screenshots of your
charts and what I have here and label
that as time distortion
and very very difficult morning session
conditions so that's it for this one
hope you learned something hope you
didn't get hurt today trying to do
something on your own and until I'll
talk to you later on
hopefully be safe